Most of the times what tends to happen
especially at the successful games
companies that sometimes these game
developers who actually build the games,
they sort of lose control. And if the
control like moves to the upper
management and and and so forth. And
then this idea going to start to grow on
me and and and so my fellow co-founders
that what if you would
found a completely new type of games
company and you you would almost like
flip the organizational chart upside
down. Meaning that instead of like the
upper management and leadership like
owning the vision, that vision would be
owned by the individual game teams. And
we start to think these individual game
teams as very kind of
That even led to the name of Supercell
because we start to call these startups
or these teams cells. And then that led
us to the name name Supercell. But the
whole idea was that let's give the power
to the game developers and and let's
make them the superstars of the company.
So so basically when they founded
Supercell, the vision was um
that they wanted to create these games
that would be played by as many people
as possible. But then also had this
longevity. We were asking ourselves,
what is the games platform that has the
widest possible reach? It's 2010. And at
that time it actually was Facebook. So
we thought that okay, let's that's going
to be the the platform of of entry. And
then we start to build our first game.
It was called this real-time MMO um
called Gunshine. We put that game to a
soft launch and we actually got some
pretty promising metrics and then on
back of those metrics we also went on
and raised our series A round of
financing. And and the purpose of that
round of financing was actually to start
to scale the game significantly through
you know marketing and and and those
type of things.
A few actually just a few months after
we had literally raised the series A
uh at this partly on this promise of
this successful game we decided to kill
the game, kill Gunshine. And and and and
not only that but they also decided that
Facebook actually is not the right
platform for the type of games we want
to build. It wasn't the most pleasant
call to make. I I remember back in the
day like you know telling somebody who
has just invested you know 8 million
euros this game isn't working out and by
the way the platform strategy that we
all believed in isn't working out either
and we're going to throw everything that
we built so far you know down the toilet
and we're going to focus on on on on
tablets and mobile. I I think this is
where like the best investors like
really show up. It's easy to be
supportive when things are going well.
But the question is that what will they
do when things aren't going well? And
and here that was an incredible sort of
a moment and and you know just a
testament how how great these people
are. And killing uh
Gunshine and and you know pivoting to a
mobile I I I I do think it it should
shape us a lot like what we were to
become as a company. It really [music]
shaped our culture in in in many
different ways. So of course you know um
we learned like how valuable
lessons you can learn from from these
[music] failures. And I still remember
fondly
the lead of that that game team who was
telling me that hey, in the afternoon
I'm going to just get the whole company
together and I'm just going to like
share like what we learned through
through this failure. And I was thinking
to myself that wow, sounds like a very
valuable meeting. But you know it's it's
it's probably going to be a bit sad. So
what could I do to kind of cheer it up a
little bit? And then I just had this
idea that I'll just get a few bottles of
champagne and I'll just give them to the
team and we can all you know have them
together and maybe that'll make it a bit
more more fun. And then I did exactly
that. And the next time when they killed
the game, did the same thing and that
tradition is still very much alive. The
whole you know history of Supercell like
many of the best things and many of the
best things we've learned have actually
come through those failures. Which has
led to me think that
failures even failures in the first
place? I mean should we even call them
failures? Maybe we should just call them
like experiments. And sometimes
experiments are you know or you have a
hypothesis and sometimes a hypothesis
proves [music] to be true.
Sometimes it proves to be false.
But in either case you learn something
new. And maybe that's how we should
think about new games as as well.
So so the decision to to kill Gunshine
and and you know pivot from Facebook to
mobile
you know why that it was a pivotal
moment for for Supercell, you know
well quite simply without that decision
like Supercell wouldn't be
uh you know the Supercell that they know
know today. And of course we got
extremely lucky with the timing. It was
a perfect time to do
exactly that. Because you know there
still was like you know a lot of
opportunity, a lot of space for like
really high quality games, really high
quality social games. And nobody was
really like that focused on it at at
that time. Early um 2012 I had a
prototype of both Hay Day and Clash of
Clans in my tablet when I went to GDC um
that year, a game developers conference.
met with uh
some pretty uh senior people from our
industry. And I was actually showing
them Clash of Clans. The basically the
question that I got was that why would
anybody play this game? They just didn't
like understand the game and they they
didn't think it it was fun and they
couldn't see anybody playing the game.
And then later on like been reflecting
on that and it maybe it was because it
was such a different game. And and from
their perspective it wasn't even a game.
I was literally asked that why don't you
guys build like real games? And and who
would play games on these devices
anyway?
I I still remember when we launched Hay
Day to to kind of be our soft launch in
in Canada.
And and then the first metrics start to
come in and and they were actually so
good that that for for first maybe few
days we thought that there's something
wrong with our analytic system. So these
figures possibly can't be you know real.
And then the exact same thing happened
on Clash of Clans just a few months
later. And it was a pretty uh
sort of incredible uh
few few months because I remember we
were celebrating we got to the 10,000
daily active users and you know we I I
went we we bought some kind of cake and
and everybody at the office had it and
just a few days even later a week later
we got to the 50,000 daily active users
and and then we again get a cake. And
then we go to 100,000 and then then we
go to half a million daily active users.
Another cake.
Million daily active users. And then
this okay 10 million, 30 million, 50
million, 70 million, 100 million. That's
a lot of cake. And and and all of this
actually happened like uh
uh in a in a relatively like short
period of time with on only basically I
guess on the back of like Hay Day,
Clash of Clans,
Boom Beach. So sometimes I still need to
like pinch myself to like see whether it
was on the dream or it it actually did
happen.
I would say that it's never been this
hard to to launch successful new games.
And it it it is like you know obviously
the competition is is tough. You know
there's like so many great games out
there and there's a lot of choice for
the consumers which is of course great.
If you look at all of the play time in
in the world, 60% of the play time went
to titles that are 6 years old or older
than that. And it's sort of like a
double-edged sword from Supercell
perspective cuz on one hand, you know we
are lucky because many of those old
quote unquote old titles that people
play happen to be from us. You know they
play Hay Day, they play Clash of Clans,
they play Clash Royale. But the bad news
also from Supercell point of view is
that it just make also it's also harder
for us to launch these new games you
know for those reasons. So we so we the
bar is is is very very high and I think
the only way to kind of overcome that
bar is just to be like even more bold,
you know take more risk, build something
that you know hasn't been built before
>> [music]
>> and and and all that and and you know
that's definitely what we're trying to
do. Well like if I think about the
future of of Supercell, I almost need to
go to the beginning and why we even
founded the the company. So our
like very ambitious bold dream was to
build something that would basically
like uh
you know be remembered forever. Like our
games should be remembered forever and I
should uh
the company. And you know we have have
always looked up to companies like
Nintendo or say Lego for example.
And and obviously you know take Nintendo
like they're more than 100 years old. We
are 15 years [music] old. So it's still
very early on our journey.
And you know we have a long way to get
there but I don't know but that's that's
what we want to do and that you know
what you know gives us a
sort of energy and passion every single
day and and it's just very exciting to
be on this path. But as I said it's
still very early days for Supercell and
feels that there's so much
opportunity left and so many things that
we can still still do better.